# CS-499-11095-M01-Computer-Science-Capstone
Final Capstone

Starting on my capstone, I used an artifact from Analysis and Design that involved a college class registration system. The tool was meant to simplify the process of course selection and management for students. The core functionality was straightforward, but it was only a simple C++ application that had basic CRUD operations. Originally, my plan was to simply keep it in C, but I realized I had an opportunity to create a more powerful user interface, along with SQLite integration. I ended on combining most functionality of the original program and adding much more, but I moved it to Node.js and express. I wanted the program to have a better UI system and be more realistic to something that someone would use in todays age. I implemented a Breath First Search, one that I learned in my time in college, to determine the path to a class. Though the test data is simple, it is capable of giving an optimal route to a class that has pre-requisites. I had to do a lot of testing, and had a few issues with database integration so I made a temporary table to test the algorithm. The SQLite integration with saving user data after someone was logged in was functional, and would be saved when the user logged out and back in due to the saved database file. I did add user authentication by first and last name, and email. I understand that more could have been done with some authentication methods, and that is something that would be of use to prevent data manipulation. Overall, the project took me a lot of time but I learned a lot, mainly due to the freedom and lack of direction the project gave me. Thought I had some health complications along the way, I found it enjoyable and developed more of a professional mindset when it comes to what level of quality something needs, the amount of effort and design that needs to be put in, and the level of preparedness. In the future, I will be better prepared on old and new ideas. It was very interesting to see my ideas develop and change on what language I would use and what SQL. The web platform I chose was express, as I had some experience with it. The level of complexity and differences between platforms and languages is very vast, but still come down to the same basic concepts that allow someone to be successful. Seeing my program grow from just a Course class with a simple menu that could print, load, and sort data, to a functional web app is exciting and shows what can be done with only a simple idea. It also shows how much improvement can take place, and how much space there is for more at all times.

Finally, I believe I did a good job reaching most aspects. I employed strategies for building collaborative environments by using a web framework. I could have divided the code into more objects, which would have made organization better. For developing communication, I wanted to make sure I explained my thought process in this self assessment and that I know I could have made many improvements. I believe as a software engineer or computer science major, you should never view your code or work as complete and perfect. Computers and technology are always changing and with that comes greater heights. I used algorithmic principles, such as the BF search. I used testing and debug statements for the table, but took a decent amount out for space. I believe it would have been better to leave them in and comment them out, but that was an opportunity I missed out on. I could have made the application more secure by adding a password system, or more authentication. I did a period of testing with bug removal. In the future, when I improve this program, I will create more classes and seperate the code better for security and organization reasons.
